
Region of Interest (ROI) :

xoffset, yoffset, height, width, coi (channel of interest).  Once it is set, functions that would
normally operate on the entire image act only on ROI if set.

Every function allows operation to be limited to a subregion.  To turn ROI on or off, use 
cvSetImageROI() and cvResetImageROI().  

Example using ROI : increment all of pixes in a region

If ROI is set along w/ a mask, processing will be restricted to intersection of ROI and mask.
Masks can be used only in functions that specify their use.


Smoothing : 

The median filter replaces each pixel by the median or "middle" pixel value in
a neighborhood around the center pixel.  Simple blurring by averaging
can be sensitive to noisy images, especially images w/ large isolated outlier
points (sometimes called "shot noise").  Large differences in even a small
# of points can cause a noticeable movement in the avg value.  Median
filtering is able to ignore outliers by selecting the middle points.

Gaussian smoothing :
The most useful.  1st 2 parameters give width, height of filter window;
optional 3rd parameter is sigma value (1/2 width at 1/2 max) of the gaussian
kernel.  If 3rd parameter not specified, a formula uses the window size to
get the sigma (see p. 112 of OpenCV book)

4th parameter is to make the kernel asymmetric.

If 3rd & 4th parameters are given but 1st two are set to 0, the size of window
automatically determined from the value of sigma.

OpenCV has higher performance optimization for several common kernels, 3x3,
5x5, 7x7 with the "standard" sigma (ie param3 = 0)

Gaussian blur supports 1 or 3 channel images in 8-bit or 32-bit floating point


To shrink an image, it will generally look best with CV_INTER_AREA 
interpolation, whereas to enlarge an image, it will generally look best 
with CV_INTER_CUBIC (slow) or CV_INTER_LINEAR (faster but still looks OK).


Bilateral filtering : edge preserving smoothing
(gaussian smoothing smooths away the edges) 
Can think of bilateral filtering as gaussian smoothing that weights similiar
pixels more highly then less similiar ones.  The effect is like a watercolor
painting of same scene.  This is useful in segmenting the image!!!   The 2nd
parameter is the width of gaussian kernel in color domain.  The larger value,
the broader the range of intensities (or colors) included in the smoothing
(and thus the more extreme a discontinuity must be in order to be preserved)



Morphological Transformations :


Dilation & erosion - used for removing noise, isolating individual elements, 
& joining disparate elements in an image.  Can also be used to find intensity
bumps or holes, and to find image gradients.


Dilation : causes bright regions in a image to grow (local maximum operator).  
           The value of a pixel is set to max value of all points covered
           by the kernel.

Erosion : does the opposite.  Computes local minimum.  Bright regions are
          isolated & shrunk.  The value of a pixel is set to min value 
          of all points covered by the kernel.

Default kernel is 3x3 w/ anchor at the center.  
can also set # of iterations of the morphological transformation.  Can
make your own kernel using IplConvKernel

Dilation used to find connected components (large discrete regions of similiar
pixel color or intensity).  Sometimes are large region may be broken apart
into mulitple components b/c of noise, shadows, or similar effect.  A small
dilation will cause some components to "melt" together into one.


Morphological Opening & Closing :

Are comibinations of erosion & dilation. 
 
Opening erodes, then dilates.  This is often used to count regions in a boolean
image.  Small bright regions are removed, remaining ones are isolated but
retain size.  (the outliers go away, but area is retained. see p. 121)


Closing dilates then erodes.  Used in connected-component algorithms to
reduce unwanted or noise-driven segments.  For connected components,
usually an erode or closing is done to eliminate elements that arise
purely from noise, then an opening used to connect nearby large regions.

Thought end result of opening/closing is similar to erode/dilation, open
and close operations tend to preserve area of connected regions more
accurately.

Open/Closing operatons are approximately area-preserving.  Closing eliminates
lone outliers lower than neighbors; opening eliminates lone outliers higher
than neighbors



------------------------------------------------------------------------------


mahalonobis # - use it to test how far away a point is from the median (how
many standard deviations)










